### Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
---------------------------------------------
world is witnessing the emergence of intelligence systems, environment aware systems that can themselves decide and respond to events. these systems are self learning and adaptive. self driving cars is an example of such systems. unlike traditional systems that have been programmed for specific formulas, methods or rules. e A systems, mind the patterns in the data and become knowledgeable on their own. these technologies are being rapidly adopted by industries today. they are being deployed to solve problems that practitioners earlier felt could not be solved by machines. let's get started and discuss a few scenarios where the use of EI has solved a difficult problem and think how a mission could have solved them. 

Lets have a deep idea on this with examples 

1. First example is from the world of criminal investigation. April 15th Boston Marathon, there were two explosions that killed three people and injured many. to identify the suspects behind this crime, FBI collected and analysed 10 terabytes of data like Kellogg's. text messages, social media feeds, photographs and videos from the surveillance cameras and cell phones. within 24 hours. The FBI had correctly identified the suspects. How was this possible? today, AI Systems are capable of analysing and interpreting enormous amount of unstructured data like voice videos, images, text, etcetera. After analysis, they can arrive at patterns much like humans, but within a very short time. If same activity had to be done by human, it would have taken months to years of time

2. second example is from the world of medicine. doctors at the University of Tokyo tried to diagnose the disease in a lady for many months, and they were unsuccessful. it cross referenced the patient's genetic changes. With 20 million cancer research papers in just 10 minutes, a machine successfully diagnosed, it has a rare form of leukaemia in minutes. the finding was a lifesaver. humanly, it is impossible to cross reference millions of papers at a very short time

3. third example is from the world of finance. American Express handles over 25% of the credit card activity in USA. in 2014 alone, they handled over $1 trillion worth of transactions. fraudulent transactions are a big risk to the credit card business. it identified and prevented about $2 billion worth of potential fraud in a single year. How did they do that? They used AI systems These systems learned from the large data sets having numerous attributes in this case, the historical transactions. and then analyse the patterns in the data and create a model. the new transactions are validated against the model to predict if the transaction was fraudulent or not. using AI system, we can achieve the speed, skill and efficiency in predicting the fraudulent transactions.

4. The next example is from the world of entertainment. Netflix is the leading Internet entertainment service, with over 1. 48 million subscriptions across 100 plus countries, enjoying TV series documentaries and feature films across a wide variety of Jonas and languages. According to a study conducted by Netflix, Customers tend to give up if it takes longer than 90 seconds to find the content of their choice. Hence it is very critical for Netflix to help customers find desirable content quickly. through personalised recommendations. Netflix estimates that it saves $1 billion annually by preventing subscription cancellations. how do they personalise recommendations for 1 48 million subscribers worldwide?  AI systems help personalised recommendations at speed and scale in real time systems, learn from the user activity data, mined the patterns and then act on providing recommendations

In the examples discussed, we saw that machines can read and understand medical research papers like humans and a lot faster. they can understand human behaviour and predict if the transaction being done is by the actual owner of the credit card or not. they can understand our likes and preferences and suggest movies for us. the problems discussed are not deterministic, and closed form solutions like formulas or rules do not exist to solve them. These are the new class of problems that require intelligent solutions. Data has patterns. Machines can mind these patterns from the data and become knowledgeable or intelligent. AI or artificial intelligence is all about making machines intelligent.
